Repository for the following [visualisation](https://app.powerbi.com/view?r=eyJrIjoiOTU3ODhmMzctZmExNy00MWExLTg1ZWYtMjQwMzA2OTdkYTZkIiwidCI6IjhlYWFjM2M2LWRkMmItNDU2Yy1hODA1LTU4NmY5ZWI0OWNiOSJ9) of Japanese hostel data.

The visualisation used Koki Ando's Kaggle [Japan Hostel Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/koki25ando/hostel-world-dataset/data). The data was web scraped by Koki Ando from [HostelWorld](https://www.hostelworld.com/) in 2018. HostelWorld is a popular hostel booking website whose mission is to connect travellers. The website has information on hostels all around the world.

We cleaned the dataset and created views necessary for the visualisation (following Power BI best practices) using SQL (MySQL) (first manually changing some column names in the dataset which clashed with SQL keywords). The visualisation itself was created in Power BI, with the violin plot made using Daniel Marsh-Patrick's [visual](https://appsource.microsoft.com/en-us/product/power-bi-visuals/wa104381947?tab=overview). The SQL script used is included in this repository.

Some points of analysis from the visualisation are:

* the scatter plot of starting price against distance from the city centre shows separation by city: hostels in Kyoto are (or were, in 2018 – this point applies to all the analysis here) generally closer to the city centre than hostels are in Tokyo – but this is likely merely because Tokyo is bigger than Kyoto. We expected that price would decrease as distance increases which while not strongly the case, the most expensive hostels are close to the city centre, and the furthest hostels are not expensive. 
* the scatter plots of starting price against rating all show the same pattern: most hostels are rated highly, and while there is no strong (at least linear) relationship between rating and starting price, lower ratings are limited to those hostels with low starting prices, and the hostels with the highest prices have high ratings (including for the value for money rating type). 
* on the starting price distribution by city, we see that the mean starting prices for all cities are similar, though the mean is slightly higher in Tokyo and lowest in Kyoto. There are a small number of expensive hostels in the big cities Osaka and Tokyo, resulting in the tails we see in the violin plots.
* from the map visualisation we see again that most hostels are highly rated. Interestingly, hostels with medium ratings (green) are frequently nearby to each other – there is some degree of spatial dependence (maybe due to certain socio-economic features of the neighbourhoods?) – and those with low ratings (blue) are frequently far from the city centre.
